'Billiards' is an umbrella term for all Cue Sports.¬ 'Pool' is a category of Billiards, but usually refers to the subgame 8-Ball Pool.¬ 'Snooker' is another subgame, like 8-Ball Pool.
In Pool, you have a rectangular table with 6 holes (4 corners, 2 long edges) called 'pockets' on it. On the table there are also 16 balls.¬¬ The white “cue” ball is the only ball that can be struck by a stick called the cue (this is how the players interact with the table).¬¬ On the opposite side of the table to the cue ball, the remaining 15 balls are set up in a triangle formation.¬¬ The idea of pool is to strike the cue ball, and have it knock the other balls into the pockets. The 7 red, and 7 yellow balls are the first targets.¬¬ When a player pots a red or yellow ball, that becomes their colour, and they must pot the rest of their balls to allow themselves to go for the last ball on the table, the black '8-ball'.¬¬ The winner is the first person to pot the black ball after potting all of one colour.¬¬ Players take turns to strike the same cue ball, and get an extra shot if they pot one of their target balls.¬¬ In a turn, if the first ball that the cue ball strikes is not one of your target balls, or if the cue ball strikes no other balls, you have fouled, and the other player gets 2 shots (fouling on your first shot, if your opponent has just fouled, forfeits your second shot).¬ Other fouls include potting the cue ball, and potting the opponent's target colour, which both allow the opponent to move the cue ball to around the table before taking their 2 shots.¬¬ The most extreme foul in pool is for potting the black ball before all of your colour (red or yellow) have been potted, the penalty for this is automatic loss of the game!
Snooker is a lot more complicated than pool, but shares the same concept, and a lot of foul conditions are carried over.¬¬ Snooker is played with 22 balls, instead of 16. The core setup is maintained, with a white ‘cue’ ball starting at one edge, with a 15-ball triangle at the other. In Snooker, the 15-ball triangle is made of all red balls. There is a black ball that starts behind the red triangle, a pink ball that touches the front of the red triangle, a blue ball in the middle, and a line with a green, brown, and yellow ball next to the cue ball.¬¬ The rhythm of Snooker is to pot a red ball, then a coloured ball (yellow, green, brown, blue, pink, or black) and repeat. On missing a shot, the other player will start from red. In this first phase, when a coloured ball is potted, it will be replaced at it’s starting position (or as close to it as it can get, if there is another ball in the way).¬¬ When the last red ball is potted, the active player gets one more shot on any coloured ball before entering the second phase. In the second phase, the target balls will be yellow, green, brown, blue, pink, then black and are not replaced when potted. The game (or 'frame', as 'games', in professional scenes, have many 'frames') is over when the black ball is potted for the last time.¬¬ The winner in Snooker is determined by a point system. Balls have the following values:¬ Red     = 1¬ Yellow  = 2¬ Green   = 3¬ Brown   = 4¬ Blue    = 5¬ Pink    = 6¬ Black   = 7¬¬ These  values are consistent throughout both phases of the frame.The values are used in 2 ways to adapt points.The first way is by legally potting a ball, the ball's value is added to your score. The other way is by fouling with a ball (hitting the wrong ball first, or potting the wrong ball), its value is given to the other player.¬¬ The winner is the player with the most points at the end.